---
layout:     post
title:      Fix ubuntu 16.04 boot failure
date:       2016-08-08 15:04:00
summary:    Upgrade ubuntu 14.04 to 16.04 and can not boot successfully, how to fix that!
categories: ubuntu
---

If you upgraded ubuntu 14.04 to 16.04 and find you can not boot successfully, you might try the following way to recover instead of earsing everything and reinstall. First you need make sure you have following phenomenon.

### Check out following steps before trying anything

  1. You can access the grub2 menu, holding _shift_ when booting the system.
  2. In grub menu, go to the recovery mode.
  3. Choose _root_.
  4. Try dpkg, and it is working.
  5. Try command _apt_, and you will get the error something like following.

> apt: relocation error: version GLIBCXX_3.4.21 not defined in file libstdc++.so.6 with link time reference...  

### Start to fix

The idea is to downgrade the libstdc++, but you are likely not to be able to have internet access due to this problem (Try _network_ in recovery mode). My solution is following[^1]:

  1. You need a live USB so that so you have some operating system that can connect to internet and play with. I am using a ubuntu 16.04 live USB.
  2. Mount your failed-boot ubuntu 16.04 (in my case /dev/sda1), download libstdc++ from [http://packages.ubuntu.com/xenial/libstdc++6](http://packages.ubuntu.com/xenial/libstdc++6) and put in the folder you can access in recovery mode.
  3. Reboot into the recovery mode, and go to _root_.
  4. `mount -o remount,rw /` to get the read write mode.
  5. Go to the folder you put the deb file, and use `dpkg -i` to downgrade.
  6. Try _apt_, it should work now.
  7. Reboot the system, now you can enter your ubuntu 16.04. You might consider to run `sudo apt-get install -f && sudo apt autoremove` to do the cleanup.
 
---

[^1]: [http://askubuntu.com/questions/777803/apt-relocation-error-version-glibcxx-3-4-21-not-defined-in-file-libstdc-so-6](http://askubuntu.com/questions/777803/apt-relocation-error-version-glibcxx-3-4-21-not-defined-in-file-libstdc-so-6)
